So I hope that your
installation was good and you had
a fun time installing
and playing around with Node js.
In this particular video, let's go
with some actual coding.
And don't worry, all the code
files that are going to be used
throughout this course, you will
get a GitHub link to that.
You can check the description also
of this particular video.
So don't worry, you
will get everything.
Okay, so in this particular video,
let's jump onto some coding
and see how we can use Node to,
you know, basically run any code,
any JavaScript outside the browser.
Now what I will recommend you is
to get a IDE so you can
choose any ID that you like.
In my case, I'm going to go
with Visual Studio code because
that's my favorite ID
and most probably yours as well.
Okay, so I already have this Visual
Studio code installed on my machine,
so you can also download it.
It is free, it is open source
and it is made by Microsoft.
So what we have to do is first
of all I'm going to create an empty
folder for today's project.
So what I have done here is you can
see that I have an empty project
empty folder of Node js, right?
So here let's create a new folder
and let's call it as hello World.
Okay?
So you have to create
an empty directory.
So now what I can do is I can
basically open this particular
folder in my terminal, right?
So I can just say CD and I can go
into the coding folder there I have
a Node js folder that I just made
and there I have a hello World.
Now I can just do a code dot
to open this particular
folder in my VS code.
So you can see that here is my VS
code and I have this folder open
now, right now my VS code is empty.
You can see there is no file.
There is nothing.
So let's start by creating a file
so you can name your file.
Anything and extension
should be JavaScript.
So what we are doing is we
are creating a new js file.
Feel free to choose any name,
but the extension should be js.
Now here let's write
a simple JavaScript code.
So hello from.
And I can just script js file.
So you can see that this is a very
simple console log statement.
Now in order to run this particular
file, in order to run this
particular code, what we can do is
from my terminal I can say
node and give the file name.
So file name was script script js.
As soon as I click enter, you
can see that I was able
to execute my script js file.
You can even say node and just
the script.js is not
necessary because of course
you are working with node.
So it assumes that you always want
to run a JavaScript file.
So it's optional to give
js at the end while you are
running it from the cli.
But you can see that using this node
script, I was able to run this
circle script file right now here
you can have all things like any
valid JavaScript code is going to
execute.
For example, you can have const
a equals to 1, you can have a const
b equals to 2 and then you can have
a const sum which is like a plus b.
And then you can just say console dot
log that the sum I can say sum is.
And then just console log the sum.
Now you have to save it.
And if I rerun it, you can
see that I am getting sum S3.
So as you have seen that we
can run any valid JavaScript
code using this node CLI.
Okay?
And one very interesting thing is
that when you just say node, you
can just say hyphen hyphen help.
So this is going to give you a help
that what all things are possible.
So you can see that here
is a full documentation.
So let me just do it again
and let's go back to the top.
So you can see that
you can just say node.
Okay?
Then you can supply some options.
These options are these all
the options which are available.
And then you can just
give a file name.
For example, script js can be given,
any file name can be given here.
And then you can give the arguments.
These arguments basically
are like CLI arguments.
So for example, you can say node
script js and you can
pass a equals 1 because 2.
So these are basically your
command line arguments.
So don't worry.
As we proceed further, I'll show you
that what are these command line
arguments and how you can build your
own CLI tool And you can even do
like node inspect, you can give some
options, then you can give the file
name, then you can give the port and
all that.
So you can see that we have
a lot of options
in which we have already seen.
One that was the hyphen
hyphen version.
So if you scroll down to V,
these are alphabetically sorted.
So if I just keep on scrolling.
Yeah.
So you can see that we have
already seen this, right?
We can say hyphen V or hyphen
hyphen version, It's a capital V
that prints the node js version.
So that means I can say node.
Okay, and at the end, yeah, so I
can just say node hyphen capital V.
Okay, sorry, node hyphen V.
Or I can say node
hyphen, hyphen version.
Okay, hyphen, hyphen version
to get the same output.
Similarly.
Similarly, let's again do a hyphen,
node hyphen, hyphen help.
And you can see we have
node V8 coverage.
We have this UV thread pull size.
This is very important.
We will cover this.
So this is how basically
you can see all the available
commands in NodeJS.
So you have this Var.
So basically this runs in a Var mode.
Now let me tell you what is this.
Okay, so let's say if I'm
changing something, let's say
if I updated this to V1.
Every time I have to run this,
I have to say node and I have
to say dot script js.
Now if I change something to let's
say V2, I again have to do this.
But what you can do, you can just
say node, hyphen, hyphen Var.
So this will basically keep
on watching the file.
So sorry, I forgot to give the name.
So node, hyphen, hyphen,
Var and script and enter.
So now what it is doing
is it is watching.
It is not exiting out.
Anytime I change something
and save, you can see it
automatically reruns, okay?
If I change something to let's
say V9, you can see it
automatically reruns, right?
So I am currently in a Var mode.
To exit out of it, I
can just say Control C.
So to exit this particular loop
I can just say control plus C.
Whether you are on Mac or
Windows doesn't matter.
It's always the control
C to exit out.
Okay, so you can see all
the available commands are available
to us in the help mode.
So there is no need to remember them.
As you go further, as you proceed,
you will see these things.
Okay, so you have a lot of
commands, you have the description.
Feel free to read it.
There is no need to read all of them.
So as we will need them, we
will keep on reading them, we
will jump into the documentation
and we will implement it.
So this was your Node cli, similar
to this, similar to your Node
cli, you have this npm, right?
So if you say npm hyphen hyphen
version, you remember that npm
Unofficial Full Form Node
Package Manager also comes along
when you install Node js.
Now let's do npm help, right?
To see what all things are available.
So you can see we can use npm
install to install something.
npm install some package thing.
npm test npm run npm
hyphen L is there, right?
npm help is there.
Then you have all the commands like
access, add, user, audit, bugs.
So you have a lot of commands
available in npm as well.
Right.
So we are going to use this npm
to majorly use install this
command and this command.
So we will install a lot
of dependencies when we are going
to build our project.
Yeah, this was basically for this
particular video in which I
wanted to demonstrate that how
you can use this CLI to run
JavaScript files and to get the
help and how you can explore
things on your own.